README.md, before:

<!-- <h1 style="text-align: center;"> -->
# Python-tools-for-Google
<!-- </h1> -->

Building a Python package for working with Google Services, including GCP and Google Drive

## Set up
1. Install the Python package as a local directory
2. Copy the package to your current working directory
3. Append the package to your path
	```
	sys.path.append("/mnt/c/Users/Asus/Desktop/cloud-space-workspace/Taylors/taylors-data-poc")
	```
4. Import the functions into your code
	```py
	from python_utils.bigquery import *
	from python_utils.utils import *
	```
5. Feel free to expand the `python_utils` folder with your custom modules that is needed for any projects

---

### Modules

- #### **[bigquery.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/bigquery.md)**
	- Functions for working with BigQuery

- #### **[google_drive.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/google_drive.md)**
	- Class and methods for working with Google Drive

- #### **[gcs_bucket.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/google_drive.md)**
	- Functions for working with Google Cloud Storage Bucket

- #### **[api.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/api.md)**
	- Functions for working with APIs 

<!-- - #### **[utils.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/utils.md)**
	- Utility functions -->

- #### **[formats.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/formats.md)**
	- Enforce file type rules. Do not edit the initial content in this file.

Commit message:

feat: added bash script for dependencies installation

README.md, after:

<!-- <h1 style="text-align: center;"> -->
# Python-tools-for-Google
<!-- </h1> -->

Building a Python package for working with Google Services, including GCP and Google Drive

## Set up
1. Create and activate a Python virtual environment in your working directory:

	```bash
	python -m venv myvenv
	source myvenv/bin/activate
	```

2. Execute the bash script to install required dependencies:
	```bash
	bash dependencies.sh
	```

3. Clone the Python package as a local directory.
4. Copy the package to your current working directory.
5. Append the package to your path.
	```
	sys.path.append("/mnt/c/Users/Asus/Desktop/cloud-space-workspace/Taylors/taylors-data-poc")
	```
6. Import the functions into your code
	```py
	from python_utils.bigquery import *
	from python_utils.utils import *
	```
7. Feel free to expand the `python_utils` folder with your custom modules that is needed for any projects

---

### Modules

- #### **[bigquery.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/bigquery.md)**
	- Functions for working with BigQuery

- #### **[google_drive.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/google_drive.md)**
	- Class and methods for working with Google Drive

- #### **[gcs_bucket.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/google_drive.md)**
	- Functions for working with Google Cloud Storage Bucket

- #### **[api.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/api.md)**
	- Functions for working with APIs 

<!-- - #### **[utils.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/utils.md)**
	- Utility functions -->

- #### **[formats.py](https://github.com/nacht29/Python-tools-for-Google/blob/main/docs/formats.md)**
	- Enforce file type rules. Do not edit the initial content in this file.
